### class based component in react.js

=> Class components are still supported by React, but not recommended using them in new code.

# basic syntax
<!-- class Greeting extends Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}!</h1>;
  }
} -->

# constructor(props) 
The constructor runs before your class component mounts (gets added to the screen). 
# Typically, a constructor is only used for two purposes in React. It lets you declare state and bind your class methods to the class instance.


# inside a constructor, you need to call super(props) before any other statement. If you don’t do that, this.props will be undefined while the constructor runs, which can be confusing and cause bugs.

=>  Constructor is the only place where you can assign this.state directly. In all other methods, you need to use this.setState() instead. Do not call setState in the constructor.

=> By calling super(props), you ensure that the parent class (React.Component) performs its necessary initializations, allowing your component to function correctly within the React framework. This is crucial for accessing this.props and setting up the component’s initial state based on the props.
 
<!-- class Counter extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = { counter: 0 };
    this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
  }

  handleClick() {
    // ...
  } -->



=> The props passed to a class component are available as this.props.

<!-- class Greeting extends Component {

 constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    }
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}!</h1>;
  }
}

<Greeting name="Taylor" /> -->


# FUNCTIONAL COMPONENT 
=> we create local state variables for changing the state 
const [name]= useState(default value)
for setting the updated value another function was use 

const [name ,setName] = useState(default value)
setname(updated value);

=> to make APIs calls we were using useEffect(()=>{
 //because we load our component then render the API instead of waiting for API to fill the data then render component
}, [])

# CLASS COMPONENT 
=> creating local state variable 
this.state{
    count:0,
    count2:0
}

=> for setting the updated value another function was use 
this.setState{

}

=> to make APIs calls we were using componentDidMount(){
//because we load our component then render the API instead of waiting for API to fill the data then render component
}


# for understanding react lifecycle method
=> https://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/ 




componentDidMount(){
   this.timer =  setInterval(()=>{
     console.log("setinterval inside CDM");
    },1000)
}
//// problem with the SPA's is this interval will keep running throught and trouble your app 

===> to avoid such problems componentWillUnmount(){
    <!-- //is used
    clearInterval(using this variable not id or ref) -->
    clearInterval(this.timer);
    console.log("component will unmount);
}
 
## READ MORE ABOUT THIS 
<!-- const Profile = () =>{
 useEffect(()=>{
  console.log("useEffect");
 },[])

return() =>{
console.log("this is unmounting useEffect");
}
return(
    <div>
    console.log("this is rendering ");
    </div>
)
} -->


