=> Redux stores and manages all of an application's state in one place. This makes it easier to understand how the state changes and how the application behaves

How does Redux work?
# Actions: 
The UI triggers events called "actions" to describe what happened. 
# Reducers: 
Separate update logic called "reducers" update the state in response to actions. 
# Middleware functions: 
Middleware functions can modify intercepted actions, dispatch new actions, or perform side effect

# Redux Libraries and Tools
- Redux Toolkit is our recommended approach for writing Redux logic. It contains packages and functions that we think are essential for building a Redux app

- React-Redux lets your React components interact with a Redux store by reading pieces of state and dispatching actions to update the store.

# WHY REDUX CAME INTO PICTURE 

=> LIFTING STATE UP :  multiple components that need to share and use the same state, especially if those components are located in different parts of the application 

# but that doesn't always help.

===> One way to solve this is to extract the shared state from the components, and put it into a centralized location outside the component tree.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# 2 types of routing in web apps
- Clients Side Routing
- Server Side Routing

# Redux Toolkit
- install @reduxjs/toolkit and react-redux
- Build our own store 
- Connect our to our app
- Slice (cartSlice)
- Dispatch an ACTION
- Read the data using SELECTOR

